# Errors & Logging

- [Configuração](#configuration)
- [Manipulando Erros](#handling-errors)
- [Exceções HTTP](#http-exceptions)
- [Logging](#logging)

<a name="configuration"></a>
## Configuração

As instalações para sua aplicação são configuradas na classe de inicialização  `Illuminate\Foundation\Bootstrap\ConfigureLogging`. Esta classe utiliza as opções de configuração de `log` do seu arquivo de configuração `config/app.php`.

Por padrão, o log é configurado para usar arquivos de log diários; porém, você pode customizar este comportamento como necessário. Desde que o Laravel usa a popular biblioteca de log [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog), você pode tirar vantagem da variedade de manipuladores que o Monolog Oferece.

Por exemplo, se você quiser usar um arquivo de log único ao invés de arquivos diários, você pode fazer a seguinte mudança no seu arquivo de configuração `config/app.php`:

	'log' => 'single'

De fora da caixa, Laravel suporta os modes de logging `single`, `daily`, `syslog` e `errorlog`. Porém, você é livre para customizar o loggin da sua aplicação como você desejar, apenas sobrescrevendo a classe de inicialização `ConfigureLogging`.  

### Error Detail

The amount of error detail your application displays through the browser is controlled by the `app.debug` configuration option in your `config/app.php` configuration file. By default, this configuration option is set to respect the `APP_DEBUG` environment variable, which is stored in your `.env` file.

For local development, you should set the `APP_DEBUG` environment variable to `true`. **In your production environment, this value should always be `false`.**

<a name="handling-errors"></a>
## Handling Errors

All exceptions are handled by the `App\Exceptions\Handler` class. This class contains two methods: `report` and `render`.

The `report` method is used to log exceptions or send them to an external service like [BugSnag](https://bugsnag.com). By default, the `report` method simply passes the exception to the base implementation on the parent class where the exception is logged. However, you are free to log exceptions however you wish. If you need to report different types of exceptions in different ways, you may use the PHP `instanceof` comparison operator:

	/**
	 * Report or log an exception.
	 *
	 * This is a great spot to send exceptions to Sentry, Bugsnag, etc.
	 *
	 * @param  \Exception  $e
	 * @return void
	 */
	public function report(Exception $e)
	{
		if ($e instanceof CustomException)
		{
			//
		}

		return parent::report($e);
	}

The `render` method is responsible for converting the exception into an HTTP response that should be sent back to the browser. By default, the exception is passed to the base class which generates a response for you. However, you are free to check the exception type or return your own custom response.

The `dontReport` property of the exception handler contains an array of exception types that will not be logged. By default, exceptions resulting from 404 errors are not written to your log files. You may add other exception types to this array as needed.

<a name="http-exceptions"></a>
## HTTP Exceptions

Some exceptions describe HTTP error codes from the server. For example, this may be a "page not found" error (404), an "unauthorized error" (401) or even a developer generated 500 error. In order to return such a response, use the following:

	abort(404);

Optionally, you may provide a response:

	abort(403, 'Unauthorized action.');

This method may be used at any time during the request's lifecycle.

### Custom 404 Error Page

To return a custom view for all 404 errors, create a `resources/views/errors/404.blade.php` file. This view will be served on all 404 errors generated by your application.

<a name="logging"></a>
## Logging

The Laravel logging facilities provide a simple layer on top of the powerful [Monolog](http://github.com/seldaek/monolog) library. By default, Laravel is configured to create daily log files for your application which are stored in the `storage/logs` directory. You may write information to the log like so:

	Log::info('This is some useful information.');

	Log::warning('Something could be going wrong.');

	Log::error('Something is really going wrong.');

The logger provides the seven logging levels defined in [RFC 5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424): **debug**, **info**, **notice**, **warning**, **error**, **critical**, and **alert**.

An array of contextual data may also be passed to the log methods:

	Log::info('Log message', ['context' => 'Other helpful information']);

Monolog has a variety of additional handlers you may use for logging. If needed, you may access the underlying Monolog instance being used by Laravel:

	$monolog = Log::getMonolog();

You may also register an event to catch all messages passed to the log:

#### Registering A Log Event Listener

	Log::listen(function($level, $message, $context)
	{
		//
	});
